---
rule_id: 1520
rule_category: maintainability
title: Only use `var` when the type is obvious or unimportant
severity: 1
---
Only use `var` as the result of a LINQ query, if the type is very obvious from the same statement, or when it's really not important.

	// Debatable: Did the author intend to use a long here? 
	var indexInSpan = 0;

	// Bad: What does this return? An IEnumerable<T>? IEqueryable<T>? What about deferred execution?
	var results = RunSearchQuery(searchColumnsSql);

	// Bad: If the type is so important you have to put it in the name of the variable, use an explicit type.
	var valueString = GetDisplayValueOf(context);

	// Debatable: DbType? SqlDbType? OracleDbType? Might be good to know.
	var dataType = row.GetColumnType(columnIndex);

Even for the debatable cases, making the type explicit will avoid another round of code review comments.

Instead, use `var` like this:

	// Good
	var query = 
		from order in orders 
		where order.Items > 10 and 
		order.TotalValue > 1000;

    // Good: In most cases, it's clear that we're returning a User. Although it may be useful to know if it's a domain entity or an abstraction.
	var user = new UserFactory.Get();

	// Good: Nothing to clarify here
	var list = new ReadOnlyCollection(); 
	
	// Good enough: We can safely assume it's a string
	var displayValue = GetDisplayValueOf(context);

The consequence of this guideline is that you can't use tooling to determine whether `var` is warranted. It all depends on the context.