---
rule_id: 2400
rule_category: layout
title: Use a common layout
severity: 1
---
- Keep the length of each line under 130 characters.

- Use an indentation of 4 spaces, and don't use tabs

- Keep one space between keywords like `if` and the expression, but don't add spaces after `(` and before `)` such as: `if (condition == null)`.

- Add a space around operators like `+`, `-`, `==`, etc.

- Always put opening and closing curly braces on a new line.

- Don't indent object/collection initializers and initialize each property on a new line, so use a format like this:

		var dto = new ConsumerDto
		{
			Id = 123,
			Name = "Microsoft",
			PartnerShip = PartnerShip.Gold,
			ShoppingCart =
			{
				["VisualStudio"] = 1
			}
		};

- Don't indent lambda statement blocks and use a format like this:

		methodThatTakesAnAction.Do(source =>
		{
			// do something like this
		}

- Keep expression-bodied-members on one line. Break long lines after the arrow sign, like this:

		private string GetLongText =>
			"ABC ABC ABC ABC ABC ABC ABC ABC ABC ABC ABC ABC ABC ABC ABC ABC ABC ABC ABC ABC ABC";

- Put the entire LINQ statement on one line, or start each keyword at the same indentation, like this:

		var query = from product in products where product.Price > 10 select product;

  	or

		var query =
			from product in products
			where product.Price > 10
			select product;

- Start the LINQ statement with all the `from` expressions and don't interweave them with restrictions.

- Remove redundant parentheses in expressions if they do not clarify precedence. Add parentheses in expressions to avoid non-obvious precedence. For example, in nested conditional expressions: `overruled || (enabled && active)`, bitwise and shift operations: `foo | (bar >> size)`.

- Add an empty line between multi-line statements, between multi-line members, after the closing curly braces, between unrelated code blocks, and between the `using` statements of different root namespaces.
